---
layout: post
title: "Gotcha #1: When ubuntu tells you to reboot, expect weird shit!"
---

## Gotcha #1
This is an attempt at a series of just writing down the annoying gotchas I encounter through daily life

# When Ubuntu tells you to reboot, expect werid shit!
Very recently I was experimenting with rust on stm32 (expect posts on that soon enough). So most of my development
I try to do using little arm boxes such as the raspberry pi and it's cheaper chinese -like systems, until such a point
that they fall over and I have to move to a system with a **lot** more ram.

So the gotcha I encountered was when I was trying to get usbd_serial working. Loaded up some example code with the
required modificaations to get it working on the specific board I was using. Load the code into the board, linux
enumerated the device. Good I think, then...where's the serial device. There's no /dev/ttyACM or /dev/ttyUSB device.
Cue lots of reloading the code, making minor modifications trying seeing if maybe it wasn't continuing in far enough.
Finally, take a look at lsmod and realise there's no usb device modules loaded at all. That's weird. Then I remember
when I first logged in for the morning ubuntu warned me that there was a reboot pending due to a kernel update when
I'd run apt update a few days ago. Oh crap, then I remember exactly what's happened. When ubunt updates the kernel,
it usually removes the kernel modules package from the old (but still running) kernel. As such, it'd enumerate the 
device and then udev would attempt to load the appropriate modules. That obviously can't be done when the modules are
gone!

One sudo reboot, a few seconds of waiting (because these little boxes usually reboot in about 30 seconds), login...and 
**boom**! There's /dev/ttyACM0!

So moral of this story, expect weird shit to happen until you do what it tells you to do. Maybe don't follow rage 
against the machine on this one, "fuck you, I'll still do what you tell me to!". The rest of their words still stand
because some of those who work forces are the same that burn crosses!
